== AutoTrackRaymarine

by Douwe Fokkema

* https://github.com/douwefokkema/AutoTrackRaymarine_pi[Github
Repository]
* http://www.cruisersforum.com/forums/f134/autotrackraymarine_pi-remote-control-and-route-following-for-evolution-pilots-225322.html[Cruiser
Forum Thread] AutoTrackRaymarine_pi Remote control and route following
for Evolution pilots

Will provide remote control of a Raymarine Evolution autopilot from
OpenCPN and route following for complex routes from start to finish.

So you make up your route in OpenCPN. Activate it. Cast off. Put the
ship on course. Press Auto on the Raymarine P70 pilot head. Pilot takes
over as usual. Press auto again: the plugin takes control of the
autopilot and will steer your ship along the activated route to your
destination. Following the route with a margin (XTE) normally less than
2 meters, independent of cross currents and compass errors. Only thing
to do is keep a lookout for obstacles and traffic. As soon as you press
Standby the autopilot returns to standby and you can steer manually
again. When you press one of the buttons +/- 1 or 10, pilot will switch
to regular auto on the last heading plus the button you pressed. Auto
button when pilot is in auto activates the tracking again.

Alternatively this may be handled from the plugin window on the OpenCPN
screen, see attached image.

The Auto, Standby and +/- buttons work as usual with your Evolution
pilot. On top of this comes the Tracking button which is enabled only
when a route is active. It will make you follow the active route as
described below. Buttons are large for easy use on touch screens.

Currently this is a beta version. The user interface needs some
improvements, I am trying to get used to the wxFormBuilder. To use the
plugin you need an Actisense NGT-1 to connect to the Raymarine
Raytalk-ng network, which is an nmea 2000 network with lots of
proprietary pgn's. Some of these I have decoded to get access to the
required functions. The current code (Windows only) can be found at
https://github.com/douwefokkema/AutoTrackRaymarine_pi . To my regret,
the this plugin requires some updates in OpenCPN to function properly.
The present version of O provides the XTE (the source for our steering)
in nm with 3 decimals. This accuracy is insufficient, we need at least 5
decimals, though the real accuracy is limited by the GPS. And to avoid
unexpected behavior at activation we need to set the XTE to zero, I have
added that function to the plugin manager. For these modifications in
OpenCPN I have submitted a PR, pending. In the meantime I use my own
version, at https://github.com/douwefokkema/OpenCPN-1

If you want to try this plugin, at
https://www.dropbox.com/sh/7j3vs6s9l...TMymjgJSa?dl=0 you will find: -
opencpn.exe, the compiled version, replace your opencpn.exe with this
one. - the installer for AutoTrackRaymarine_pi or if you prefer -
AutoTrackRaymarine_pi.dll

In preferences, set the serial port number of your Actisense NGT-1. You
may forget about the rest. For the technically interested, the plugin is
using a PID based steering function that calculates corrections on the
Bearing to Waypoint (BTW) based on the XTE as received from OpenCPN. It
normally sticks to the route within 2 meters, on heading changes at
waypoints it may overshoot a little. With large compass errors or strong
cross currents, it may take a minute or so to settle down on the track.

This plugin was inspired by and may use code from autopilot_route_pi,
Autopilot-Plugin and Canboat (for controlling the Actisense NGT-1).

Warning: this plugin may take full control of your autopilot. In case of
system or software errors be ready to switch the autopilot off (never
happened).

=== Feb 9, 2020 CF Post

https://www.cruisersforum.com/forums/f134/opencpn-nmea2000-and-autopilots-229737.html#post3070984[CF
Post #9] I have two reasons to control the autopilot from my computer,
and specifically from OpenCPN. My arguments apply specifically to my
Raymarine Evolution pilot, communicating with Raytalk ng which is
NMEA2000.

. I want a remote control with the possibility to set the autopilot to
Auto/Standby and to adjust the heading set. The wireless remote control
that Raymarine provides is too expensive and rather old fashioned,
connected through the old Seatalk with a converter that caused all kinds
of problems.
. The Track function on the autopilot is difficult or impossible to use
with OpenCPN. It needs data from O, but whatever you send it, after some
time it switches off with a “No data” message. I have the impression it
requires a Raymarine display to function.
. When the Raymarine track function does work, it behaves very
erratically at startup, steering crazy headings for some minutes, then
stabilizing on the right track. Further it requires confirmation at
every waypoint, which is not practical when you have routes with
hundreds of waypoints often very close together.

To do a better job one needs to control the autopilot for at least the
following functions: set heading, set auto/standby. I have decoded the
communication of the autopilot with the pilot head and deciphered the
proprietary pgn's that perform these functions. With this I have build a
plugin for O that provides a remote control for the autopilot and a
route following function. The plugin is using a Actisense NGT-1 for the
communication with the NMEA2000 network of Raymarine. The plugin is also
monitoring the keystrokes on the Raymarine P70 pilot head and acts on
that to activate the route following. The current version of the plugin
does however not function (yet) with the released version of O, it needs
a higher version of the plugin API in O which is already in O master,
coming out in next release. Further details on this plugin:
https://www.cruisersforum.com/forums...ts-225322.html. I will have a
updated version of this plugin available before summer.

Douwe Fokkema

Note: The PGN's I am using to control the Raymarine pilot are
proprietary and don't have nmea183 equivalents. So I don not see how a
SignalK server can do a conversion. Further I have no need of a
conversion, my plugin is working and tested during a full sailing
season. To follow a route I do not need the full route in the plugin. I
just use the DTW, BTW and XTE for the current leg, that is sufficient to
steer on track. Reason I needed an update in O is that the accuracy of
the XTE in the nmea183 message lacks precision. I want to steer within
meters from the track, limited only by the accuracy provided by the GPS
